Guide to Ignore Snyk Vulnerability (#2202)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/ignore-snyk-vulnerability.md

            "low": "green",
            "medium": "yellow",
            "high": "red",
            "critical": "red"
            }
        },
        "url": {
            "icon": "Link",
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Issue URL",
            "format": "url"
        },
        "publicationTime": {
            "type": "string",
            "format": "date-time",
            "title": "Publication Time",
            "icon": "DefaultProperty"
        },
        "status": {
            "title": "Status",
            "icon": "",
            "type": "string",
            "enum": [
            "open",
            "resolved"
            ],
            "enumColors": {
            "open": "red",
            "resolved": "green"
            }
        },
        "issueKey": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Issue Key"
        }
        },
        "required": []
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "aggregationProperties": {},
    "relations": {
        "project": {
        "title": "Project",
        "target": "snykProject",
        "required": false,
        "many": false
        }
    }
    }
    ```
    </details>

> 

Reviewer: Can we move the creation of these blueprints into separate headers
and also let's separate the save step from the 4th point to make the instruction more clearer.
Like done here 
![Uploading image.png…]()

Reviewer: https://docs.port.io/guides/all/change-status-and-assignee-of-jira-ticket

## Implementation

You can ignore Snyk vulnerability by leveraging Port's **synced webhooks** and **secrets** to directly interact with Snyk's API.

### Add Port secrets

<ExistingSecretsCallout integration="Snyk" />

To add these secrets to your portal:

1. Click on the `...` button in the top right corner of your Port application.

2. Click on **Credentials**.

3. Click on the `Secrets` tab.

4. Click on `+ Secret` and add the following secrets:
    - `_SNYK_TOKEN`: Your [Snyk API key](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-api/rest-api/authentication-for-api).
    - `_SNYK_ORGANIZATION_ID`: Your Snyk organization ID.

### Set up self-service action

> Let's define a self-service action that is used to ignore a Snyk vulnerability:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create the self-service action:
```

        },
        "body": {
        "ignorePath": "",
        "reason": "{{ .inputs.ignoreReason }}",
        "reasonType": "{{ .inputs.reasonType }}",
        "ignoredBy": {
            "name": "{{ .trigger.by.user.firstName }}",
            "email": "{{ .trigger.by.user.email }}",
            "id": "{{ .trigger.by.user.id }}"
        },
        "disregardIfFixable": false,
        "{{ if (.inputs | has(\"expirationDate\")) then \"expires\" else null end }}": "{{ if (.inputs | has(\"expirationDate\")) then (( .inputs.expirationDate | sub(\" days\"; \"\") | tonumber) * 86400 | now + . | strftime(\"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S%z\")) else null end }}",
        "created": "{{ .trigger.at }}"
        }
    },
    "requiredApproval": false
    }
    ```
    :::tip Mapping Snyk Issue Key
    If you're using Port's Snyk integration, note that the vulnerability blueprint does not include the `issueKey` by default. However, this key is required to ignore issues directly in Snyk.

    To resolve this:
    1. Go to your Builder page and add `issueKey` as a new property in the vulnerability blueprint.

    2. Then, head to the Data Sources page and update the mapping to include:

>     ```yaml showLineNumbers

Reviewer: Then following that we can have a separate section to update the data source with the newly added property. 
That would handle this tip.

    - kind: vulnerability
        selector:
        query: 'true'
        port:
        entity:
            mappings:
            identifier: .id
            title: .attributes.title
            blueprint: '"snykVulnerability"'
            properties:
                score: .attributes.risk.score.value
                packageNames: [.attributes.coordinates[].representations[].dependency?.package_name
                | select(. != null)]
                packageVersions: [.attributes.coordinates[].representations[].dependency?.package_version
                | select(. != null)]
                severity: .attributes.effective_severity_level
                url: ("https://app.snyk.io/org/" + .attributes.key | tostring)
                publicationTime: .attributes.created_at
                status: .attributes.status
                type: .attributes.type
                # highlight-start
                issueKey: .attributes.key
                # highlight-end
            relations:
                project: .relationships.scan_item.data.id
    ```

>     :::

Reviewer: This is too much as a tip and if the dropdown isn't scrolled properly can be missed based on where it's placed. 
I would suggest moving the issueKey creation to the Set up data model section. Like if you have the integration installed you have to update the blueprint to include this property and if you don't have it then copying the entire snippet provided above should handle this problem

            "criticalOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open Critical Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "highOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open High Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "mediumOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open Medium Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "lowOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open Low Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "tags": {
            "type": "array",
            "title": "Tags",
            "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            },
            "targetOrigin": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Target Origin"
            }
        },
        "required": []
        },
        "mirrorProperties": {},
        "calculationProperties": {},
        "aggregationProperties": {},
        "relations": {}
    }
    ```
    </details>

5. Click `Save` to create the blueprint:

> ### Create the Snyk vulnerability blueprint

Reviewer: So this will house both Updating the blueprint or adding the blueprint

If you have installed Port's Snyk integration, you need to add the `issueKey` property to the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint to allow users to ignore the issue directly from Port.  

Follow the steps below to add the property:

1. Go to your [Builder](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-model) page.
2. Search for the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint.
3. Click on the `{...} Edit JSON` button.
   
    

4. Copy and paste the following JSON snippet into properties.
        <details>
      <summary><b>Issue key property (click to expand)</b></summary>
    
    
    ```json showLineNumbers
    "issueKey": {
      "title": "Issue Key",
      "type": "string"
    }
    ```
    </details>

> ### Update synk integration configuration 

Reviewer: I suggested we move this to the bottom so we have a flow like this. 
If you have the integration installed add the issue key by following these steps, if you you don't have it installed add blueprint by following these steps .... 
and after that we update the integration configuration

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to ignore a synk vulnerability
---

import ExistingSecretsCallout from '/docs/guides/templates/secrets/_existing_secrets_callout.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Ignore Snyk Vulnerability

## Overview

> This guide will help you implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to ignore a Snyk vulnerability directly from Port using **synced webhooks**.

Reviewer 2: lets avoid such statements like "this guide will help you..."
instead, use "This guide demonstrates how to..."

Reviewer: @hadar-co Noted

> This guide will help you implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to ignore a Snyk vulnerability directly from Port using **synced webhooks**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how to implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to ignore a Snyk vulnerability.
```

            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open High Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "mediumOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open Medium Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "lowOpenVulnerabilities": {
            "icon": "Vulnerability",
            "type": "number",
            "title": "Open Low Vulnerabilities"
            },
            "tags": {
            "type": "array",
            "title": "Tags",
            "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            },
            "targetOrigin": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Target Origin"
            }
        },
        "required": []
        },
        "mirrorProperties": {},
        "calculationProperties": {},
        "aggregationProperties": {},
        "relations": {}
    }
    ```
    </details>

5. Click `Save` to create the blueprint.

### Create or update the Snyk vulnerability blueprint

In this setup, we will create or update the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint.      
**Skip** to the [update blueprint](#update-the-blueprint) section if you already have the blueprint.

> #### Create the blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create the Snyk vulnerability blueprint
```

> If you have not installed Port's Snyk integration, you need to manually create the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint. Follow the steps below to add the blueprint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not installed Port's Snyk integration, you need to manually create the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint.   Follow the steps below to add the blueprint:
```

            "high": "red",
            "critical": "red"
            }
        },
        "url": {
            "icon": "Link",
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Issue URL",
            "format": "url"
        },
        "publicationTime": {
            "type": "string",
            "format": "date-time",
            "title": "Publication Time",
            "icon": "DefaultProperty"
        },
        "status": {
            "title": "Status",
            "icon": "",
            "type": "string",
            "enum": [
            "open",
            "resolved"
            ],
            "enumColors": {
            "open": "red",
            "resolved": "green"
            }
        },
        "issueKey": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Issue Key"
        }
        },
        "required": []
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "aggregationProperties": {},
    "relations": {
        "project": {
        "title": "Project",
        "target": "snykProject",
        "required": false,
        "many": false
        }
    }
    }
    ```
    </details>
5. Click `Save` to create the blueprint.

> #### Update the blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Update the Snyk vulnerability blueprint
```

If you have installed Port's Snyk integration, you need to add the `issueKey` property to the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint. Follow the steps below to add the property:

1. Go to your [Builder](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-model) page.
2. Search for the `Snyk Vulnerability` blueprint.
3. Click on the `{...} Edit JSON` button.
4. Copy and paste the following JSON snippet into properties.
        <details>
      <summary><b>Issue key property (click to expand)</b></summary>
    
    
    ```json showLineNumbers
    "issueKey": {
      "title": "Issue Key",
      "type": "string"
    }
    ```
    </details>

5. Click `Save` to update the blueprint.

> ### Update synk integration configuration 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update Synk integration configuration 
```
